---
title: Haptics
---

Provides haptic feedback for
- iOS 10+ devices using the Taptic Engine
- Android devices using Vibrator system service.

**Note for iOS: The Taptic engine will do nothing given the following circumstances:**
* Low Power Mode is enabled
  * [Feature Request](https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/expose-low-power-mode-ios-battery-saver-android)
* User disabled the Taptic Engine in settings
  * [Feature Request](https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/react-native-settings)
* Haptic engine generation is to low (less than 2nd gen) - Private API
  * Using private API will get your app rejected: `[[UIDevice currentDevice] valueForKey: @"_feedbackSupportLevel"]` so this is not added in Expo
* iOS version is less than 10 (iPhone 7 is the first phone to support this)
  * This could be found through: `Expo.Constants.platform.ios.systemVersion` or `Expo.Constants.platform.ios.platform`

**Note for Android: haptic is simulated using Vibrator**

## API

### `Haptics.selectionAsync(): Promise<null>`
Used to let a user know when a selection change has been registered

#### Example

```js
Haptics.selectionAsync()
```

### `Haptics.notificationAsync(type: NotificationFeedbackType): Promise<null>`

| Property |      Type                | Description                                            |
| -------- | :----------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| type     | NotificationFeedbackType | The kind of notification response used in the feedback |

#### Example

```js
Haptics.notificationAsync(Haptics.NotificationFeedbackType.Success)
```

### `Haptics.impactAsync(style: ImpactFeedbackStyle): Promise<null>`

| Property  |      Type           | Description                              |
| --------- | :-----------------: | ---------------------------------------- |
| style     | ImpactFeedbackStyle | The level of impact used in the feedback |

#### Example

```js
Haptics.impactAsync(Haptics.ImpactFeedbackStyle.Light)
```

---

## Constants

### NotificationTypes
The type of notification generated by a UINotificationFeedbackGenerator object.

```js
const NotificationTypes = {
  'Success': 'success',
  'Warning': 'warning',
  'Error': 'error',
}
```

#### Success
A notification feedback type, indicating that a task has completed successfully.

#### Warning
A notification feedback type, indicating that a task has produced a warning.

#### Error
A notification feedback type, indicating that a task has failed.


### ImpactStyles
The mass of the objects in the collision simulated by a UIImpactFeedbackGenerator object.

```js
const ImpactStyles = {
  'Light': 'light',
  'Medium': 'medium',
  'Heavy': 'heavy',
}
```

#### Light
A collision between small, light user interface elements.

#### Medium
A collision between moderately sized user interface elements.

#### Heavy
A collision between large, heavy user interface elements.

---

## Types

### [NotificationFeedbackType](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uinotificationfeedbacktype)
The type of notification generated by a UINotificationFeedbackGenerator object.

```js
$Enum<{
  success: string,
  warning: string,
  error: string,
}>
```

### [ImpactFeedbackStyle](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimpactfeedbackstyle)
The mass of the objects in the collision simulated by a UIImpactFeedbackGenerator object.

```js
$Enum<{
  light: string,
  medium: string,
  heavy: string,
}>
```
